a very good evening to you we're live in
Tel Aviv on a significant day in the war
between Israel and Hamas a planned pors
in fighting in Gaza came into effect
early this morning a temporary ceasefire
lasting initially 4 days allowing some
hostages out as well as Aid into the
territory now these are some of the 13
Israeli hostages women and children who
were given their freedom in the last few
hours they made their way to Egypt
through the RAF Crossing in southern
Gaza and onto Israel one can only
imagine the scenes as they were finally
reunited with their loved ones within
the next few days a total of 50 Israeli
hostages are expected to be released as
part of the deal to continue the pause
in the fighting and in return over in
ramala in the West Bank 150 Palestinians
held by Israel will be released starting
today with 39 women and teenage AG boys
well this is the scene live in Gaza
tonight where the ceasefire seems to be
holding with much needed Aid arriving
throughout the day gaza's Hamas run
Health Ministry now says more than
14,000 people have been killed during
Israeli bombardments a military
offensive that began of course after
1,200 people were murdered and around
240 hostages were taken by Hamas 7 weeks
to go tomorrow Hamas is designated as a
terror organization by the UK government
our first report tonight is from
aaran after dark a convoy of vehicles
Crossing from Gaza into
Egypt a glimpse of the hostages inside
on the road to
Freedom a number were Neighbors in the
same kibuts their ordeal lasted almost
days among those freed a mother and
daughter seen here in a family birthday
video Amelia in blue is 6 years old she
and her mother Danielle now back on home
soil also freed Margalit a cancer
survivor who loves knitting sweaters for
her
grandchildren
[Music]
and in the heart of Tel Aviv a time for
celebration many Israelis feel connected
to the hostages their faces have been
everywhere for six weeks there's
Collective relief that at least some
have been
[Applause]
[Music]
freed but for others The Waiting
continues a circle of women singing and
remembering they are friends and
relatives of aai sski taken by Hamas
from a kibuts near the Gaza Border Grand
they know he won't be home
soon for Tai's cousin naama Weinberg
mixed emotions
today when I will see the those hostages
back here in Israel I will be very happy
for their families and for
them
but very happy for them really but we
also need to remember that it's only the
beginning
and 12 or 13 hostages that will be
released today
hopefully and the 50 total in the next 4
days is is less than a quarter
[Applause]
in Gaza streets bustling once again
after the ceasefire took
effect families going to look for food
or check if their homes are still
standing many here are hoping there will
be peace for longer than four
days we hope the ceasefire will be
extended says um Muhammad today is the
first day we woke up without
bombing without being terrified with
nothing to
fear Aid trucks are finally reaching
Gaza hundreds will go in each day while
the ceasefire lasts but both Israel and
Hamas are warning the truce is
temporary orer and BBC News Tel Aviv